
# GroovyMorningFM and the RadioLiveALaCarte platform

**RadioLiveALaCarte** is a platform designed to deliver a customizable "live radio" experience, focusing on morning programs. The platform achieves this through **modular backend services** that capture, store, and enrich **audio segments with metadata and embeddings for advanced media analysis**. Built on technologies like **LanceDB** and **RustFS**, it supports efficient storage and processing of audio data, paired with a mobile iOS interface for seamless user interaction.

**GroovyMorningFM** is a consummer app, powered by the RadioLiveALaCarte platform, whose users can listen to live radio broadcasts and swap out segments they don’t like with others from the same station, including recent segments (e.g., from minutes ago, not yet available as podcasts) or earlier ones from hours before, creating a **personalized "à la carte" radio experience**.

Check the [Glossary](README.md#glossary) for a precise definition of the terms used.






# Project Structure

```
.
├── LICENSE.txt
├── README.md
├── deploy                                               # Global Docker Compose based deployment files with example configuration
│   ├── conf
│   │   └── grvfm-backend-media-capture-service-example001.conf
│   └── docker
│       ├── docker-compose.yml
│       └── params.env
├── grvfm-backend-services                               # GroovyMorningFM backend services
│   ├── Dockerfile
│   ├── README.md
│   └── grvfm-backend-media-capture-service.conf
├── grvfm-ui-mobile-ios                                  # GroovyMorningFM iOS Mobile App
├── rlalc-backend-common
├── rlalc-backend-media-capture-service                  # RadioLiveALaCarte Media capture service  
│   ├── Dockerfile
│   ├── README.md
│   └── rlalc-backend-media-capture-service.conf
├── rlalc-backend-media-datastore                        # RadioLiveALaCarte Media and metadata datastore service  
│   └── README.md
├── rlalc-backend-media-labeler-ai-audio-analysis        # RadioLiveALaCarte Media labeller - based on AI audio transscription and analysis
│   ├── Dockerfile
│   └── README.md
└── rlalc-backend-media-labeler-basic-schedule           # RadioLiveALaCarte Media labeller - based on theoritical radio schedules
    ├── Dockerfile
    └── README.md
```






# Components



## RadioLiveALaCarte

### rlalc-backend-media-capture-service
Captures audio segments from radio broadcasts using tools like `ffmpeg`. It records audio streams, handles network buffering, and stores raw segments in the datastore.

### rlalc-backend-media-datastore
A storage layer built on **LanceDB** and **RustFS**, responsible for:
- Storing raw audio segments from the capture service.
- Storing metadata and annotations generated by metadata generation components.
- Supporting embeddings/vectors (e.g., audio signatures, textual meaning vectors) for AI-driven analysis.

See [rlalc-backend-media-datastore/README-rlalc-backend-media-datastore.md](rlalc-backend-media-datastore/README-rlalc-backend-media-datastore.md) for details.

### rlalc-backend-media-labeler-...
A family of batch components that generate metadata and annotations for [Segments](./README.md#chunk). These metadata and annotations can be embeddings (e.g., audio signatures, textual meaning vectors, ...) or any other type (text, URLs, ...). Examples include:
- **rlalc-backend-media-labeler-basic-schedule**: Uses official radio program schedules and recording timestamps to assign metadata like *'segment-approx-programid'*, *'segment-approx-programsegmentid'* and *'segment-time-recordingtimestart'*.
- **rlalc-backend-media-labeler-ai-audio-analysis**: Employs AI techniques (e.g., voice recognition, text analysis) to generate advanced metadata like *'segment-time-realtimestart'*, *'segment-real-programid'*, *'segment-real-progsegmentid'* or *'segment-content-summary'* and *'segment-content-transcript'*.
- ...

REMARK: The *'segment-source-radioid'* and *'segment-time-recordingtimestart'* are always provided by the 'rlalc-backend-media-capture-service'.

### 4. rlalc-backend-common
Shared libraries, utilities, and configurations used across backend services.



## GroovyMorningFM

### 5. grvfm-ui-mobile-ios
The GroovyMorningFM iOS mobile application to create and listen to custom "à la carte" radio experiences.

### 6. grvfm-ui-mobile-backend
The Backend services for the GroovyMorningFM mobile application(s)






# Getting Started

## Prerequisites
- Docker and Docker Compose

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/eglantinefonrose/RadioLiveALaCarte.git
   cd RadioLiveALaCarte
   ```
2. Configure environment variables in `deploy/docker/parameters.env`.
3. Build and run services using Docker Compose:
   ```bash
   docker-compose -f ./deploy/docker/docker-compose-full.yml --env-file ./deploy/docker/parameters.env  up --build 
   ```

## Development
- Each component has its own `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml` for isolated development.
- Add new metadata generation components under the `rlalc-backend-media-metadatagen-<technique>-<specificity>` naming convention.






# Contributing

## Development tech stack

### Java
We use SDKMAN to install/choose which version of the Java ecosystem tools we use.

Here are the versions used for the Java based components 
```bash
sdk use java 23.0.2-zulu
sdk use gradle 8.10
```

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:
1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature`).
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add your feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature`).
5. Open a pull request.







# Glossary

This glossary helps disambiguate terms which might have different meanings in different contexts.



## RadioLiveALaCarte

#### Chunk
Media file with a standardized (usually short) length (10s or 30s most of the time) captured, stored and processed by the RLALC platform.

#### Media Datastore
The component in charge of storing media files and associated metadata and annotations. This component exposes an API to allow searching for chunks based on metadata attributes.

#### User (RLAC)
An administrator of the RadioLiveALaCarte platform that can perform actions on it.




## GroovyMorningFM

#### User (GMFM)
A person using the GroovyMorningFM app to customize the way they listen to live radio.

#### Custom schedule
The schedule created by a [user](./README.md#user-gmfm). It is always based on a [predefined schedule](./README.md#predefined-schedule-of-a-program) of a Radio, and customized by switching some [Segments](./README.md#segment) with others.

#### Program (aka Emission FR)
A consistent set of [Segments](./README.md#segment) which usually have a clearly defined title, time of start, duration and cadence (daily, only on Saturdays, ...)

#### Predefined schedule (of a Program)
The order and duration of all the [Segments](./README.md#segment) that make up a [Program](./README.md#program).

#### Program-segment aka Segment (GMFM) (aka Chronique FR)
Sub-section inside a [Program](./README.md#program) (for instance, the "3 minutes long economic segment" in the "France Inter" 7am-10am morning program).
To avoid ambiguities with the Segment term in RLALC this can be referred to as "Program segment".





# License
[MIT License](LICENSE.txt)






# Contact
For questions or feedback, please open an issue or contact the maintainers at `hello@groovymorningfm.tee-xprmnt.ovh`
